1) Every employee should have the freedom of living their life the way they want to.
	a) Every employee should be able to say their wants/needs/wishes to the employee welness manager and the manager is bound not to disclose these details to anyone and no action would be taken on the employee based on the meeting outcome provided employee does not perform any action that requires disciplinary action.
	b) The employee can choose to work from home provided the employee is in a role that does not require excessive on-site communication and the employee has enough resources to work from home. The manager and the employee welness manager need to decide on whether this can be allowed for the employee and decide on the metrics to determine if employee performance is being affected because of working from home.
	c) The employees should have the flexibility of choosing a wellness program for a year. The welness program can include a luxury trip to one of the approved destinations (defined expenses covered), buying a fitness program with it, buying a fitness gadget with it. The option can be there to accumulate the program onto next year where in the amount of the program increases 50% the next year.
	d) Employee should have the flexibility to choose their work timings provided the team work timings does not require the employees to work during specific hours to ensure better communication and delivery. 
	e) Employee should be allowed to change team or report any issue working with the current team and the employee welness manager needs to decide the appropriate step to be taken for such employee.
2) When we have nothing to do we make big deal out of small issues. So, the employees should be busy enough to not wander in wrong direction. The company should provide the enjoyment options to keep them engaged.
3) It should not be that if one team is performing good and completing the tasks in time that team is assigned to help others. This will not give due credit to their good work. Instead such people should be assigned lead roles to lead other teams.
4) People have both good and bad instincts, however when people with high position get bad instincts they tend force those instincts on lower hierarchy. So, need to improve the power management so person at every level has right to say against the wrong.
5) Personal security should be free.
6) Every person living in poverty, slums, or involved in theft, drugs, kidnapping etc. should get a chance to get out of that life. Once such people are out of this life, they should get the security to live peacefully in the new life. Salvation (move from old undesirable state to new secured state).