Right devices (watch for kids, bangles for women, hanging in purse, device that can be placed on bus top) not available and proper (step by step with pictures) explanation of scenarios not present and cost of products is high, because of which people are not willing to try out existing platforms.

1) Start with a GPS device and a map application that allows real time location monitoring of a person. The device should be as cheap as possible. The device should have a panic button that gives the current location and sends a mail and emergency SMS to the care-taker. On pressing the panic button the frequency of sending GPS info should increase from 1 minute to 10 seconds for 5 minutes (free version) to 1 day(paid version, can be increased in case the person calls and reports an emergency situation). 
2) The app should be able to define areas within the map that are within the allowable locations. Anything outside that location should trigger a panic button.
3) The GPS device can be integrated with many gadgets like watch etc so it becomes hard to identify it.
4) The device shoujld be able to work even when hidden under sth(eg while kidnapping a person might be wrapped in cloth or thrown in secluded location. Also, if the device is wrapped inside a casing the device should be working.
5) The GPS on mobile device can be used to send data to subscribed mobiles as well. This service should be free.
6) The GPS tracking can be turned on/off based on schedule or manual controls.

Near Future:
1) Gen 2 of the device should have a feature of either calling using a bluetooth connected mobile in case of panic or placing a call (one direction) using the microphone on the device. Need to consult lawyer before this can be implemented.
2) The devices should have a sim with option of enable hotspot so that the data plan within the sim can be used for other tasks as well.
3) There should be an onboarding and offboarding document specifying access to given etc.

Points to Remember:
1) For any feature implementation or user guide development consider the breadth of user base on how they would use the tool and how they would expect the user guide to be Ex. the user may get bored of the documentation if it does not have any fun in it. A good example of interest generation is as below:
https://medium.com/@harivigneshjayapalan/dagger-2-for-android-beginners-dagger-2-part-ii-436c3e3aa15b
Similarly for features consider all ways in which user may use the app like after asking for location, user may close the app or move the app to background. The experience should be good once the user goes back to the app.
2) Whenever designing any solution or design pattern consider end-to-end flow to determine the best possible way to solve a problem. Ex. In FORD project when we needed to implement duplicate detection during connection alert and aut change command response flow to avoid sending 2 notifications of TCU swap to CVFMA, we can add the duplicate detection on queue, or validate database before placing message in intermediate job processor queue, or after placing message in job processor queue. Duplicate detection on queue is not viable because it deviates the setting of message id used in other places. Validating in database before sending message to queue is not viable because we are validating database way before sending the actual notification, so different failures upto sending notification need to be considered. Ideal scenario is to validate database just before sending the notification. Also, one approach was to not handle connection alert based changes for first 5 minutes. But that was not a good solution as if TCU is not in network same race condition scenario may occur once the TCU reconnects.
3) User operations should be fast and optimized. Ex. When a user clicks Ctrl+S in word, word knows whether there has been any change since last save. If there is a change only then it triggers a call to server.
4) Any data collected from the user may be used by other agencies. This caveat should be displayed to the user post app installation.
5) If any employee within the organization becomes curropt then there should be policies in place that prevent the abuse of the system.
6) The configuration should be set per region (Eg. In India road speed would not be more than 120 km/h in 99% cases)
7) The configurations can be over-ridden by the app extender. Company that uses the API to extend the features.
8)  If you are using the Maps SDK for Android with a Google Maps APIs Premium Plan license, you must prefix each attribute with m4b_. For example, when specifying the map type attribute, use m4b_mapType instead of mapType. Or, when specifying zoom controls, use m4b_uiZoomControls instead of uiZoomControls, and so on.
9) Make sure not to hide google logo or copyright information on the map.
10) Test features by changing orientation of the phone or when user is out of the application and comes back.
11) The documentation should be referenced in a central database and should be versioned. A link should always point to the latest version of the document and any older versions can be accessed by using the link with the version suffixed to it. Also, the documentation should contain reusable snippet of text that can be referenced at other places and that can be edited, so that all references show the updated content. Consider the documentation to be written in a OOPS way for better managability and control.
12) All the services/components should have a DR strategy so that if any is not available, it can be made functional by switching to another data center. DR of entire solution if needed in case of a data center down, it can be catered to by executing the DR strategy for all components.
13) Every employee should be vigilated by tracking the number of times the employee has viewed the records and the times at which the employee has viewed and which record the employee has viewed. Any employee dealing directly with the public should be monitored through video and audio to ensure proper behavior. Public interacting with the employeed should be given an easily accessible feedback mechanism to report any bad/good behoviour. The behavior should be analyzed based on the audio/video data.

Features:
1) The users should be able to create multiple groups for managing who can track the users activities and whose activity can the user track. User can create a group first, so user is clear on what is the purpose of the group and then the user can keep adding the members based on the mobile numbers stored in the phone(or new mobile numbers, not yet stored). Whenever the user creates a group with new members, the members are sent an SMS with a link to add to the group. The target user has the option to select the access level (Public-only view the data shared by others in the group- other members cannot request the user to share location, Private - Public access + Share the location of self with the group, Trusted - Private + View the location of others within the group. This should be enabled with a caveat.). The owner of the group has the option of making the other members of the group as owner. Only the owner of the group can request the members to change the access level of the users. The owner can also specify whether the members are restricted to change their access level. Though any user can leave the group at any time. The notification regarding anyone leaving the group should be sent to the owner.
2) The members can be added based on a mobile number or based on the device id. In case of device id, the owner of the device would get the notification (on mobile) and request to add to group. For a device the user should be able to edit the target mobile number association. The editing of the device should always happen on a SIM connection as the device may not be accessible on a bluetooth connection always.
3) Two roles should be present within a group - owner and member. The person who creates a group by default becomes the owner of the group. The owner should have following rights:
	a) Can make other members as owner.
	b) Can remove the members from the group or add new members to the group.
	c) Can disable himself from the notifications.
	d) Can define the rules at the group level as below:
		i) Restrict the members from changing their access level.
		ii) Specify a schedule at which all the members should share their location information with the owner.
		iii) Specify if sharing the location with all the members of the group is restricted. By default the location would be sent only to owners.
		iv) Can get the location information (by schedule or current) for any member or entire group. If the target is not already emmiting the location data, the target GPS will be activated based on schedule and the owner would be able to view the location starting from the schedule. By default the data for last 7 days would be stored for premium accounts.
		v) Select icon for the members on the group and specify if members are restricted from selecting their own icon.
	e) View reports for one group, one member in the group or all group. The reporting would indicate if the device was active during the schedule for the device and the locations where the device was present during the schedule (a map should be provided specifying the location during the schedule. If the user changes the schedule in between another on-going schedule, all the devices need to be adjusted for the new schedule.
The user should have the following rights:
	a) Specify the schedule to share with the group(owners only will be able to view if default setting is present) and share on demand (On-demand schedule sharing should be enabled on the group).
	b) Select the icon for self in the group (provided the icon restriction has not been set by the owners).
4) Some advanced features should be enabled only after the user registers as premium user to avoid confusion to new members.
5) Sharing the location with specific members can be done by the user only outside the group. This feature can be restricted at the account level. Every mobile number(or device) can be associated with a account (for paid versions). The account would be charged on the basis of pay as per use. No one time fee would be charged on the account. The maximum limit can be set on the account when the limit is reached, the services for paid version will not be allowed.
6) User should be able to select an area on the map and if the target goes outside of that region the owners would be notified.
7) The reporting should allow the fleet owners to view information like total km's travelled (either for the group) or for individual member.
8) Allow the feature where a person leaves a vicinity A(say school or home), then the GPS tracking automatically starts and does not stop till the person reaches vicinity B(within 200 metres from the target) or vicinity A again. This will help parents track the daily to and fro for the kids. The parents can set the schedule (days and time within those days) when this monitoring should be enabled.
9) In case of any issues/errors or incorrect location reporting there should be a very simple way to report the issue.
10) The registration should be simple. Show the current mobile number. 
11) There should be information displayed on who within the group is not transmitting data and who is transmitting.
12) Whenever someone is transmitting their GPS using app, then the information should be displayed as a notification to user or an icon indicating the data is being transmitted.
13) In case of a panic, the location service would be turned on and the SMS would be sent to the emergency number regarding the panic situation.
14) For better adoption allow the person to use a simulator where the person can add a dummy device as a friend, then track it's location, see it's speed and perform all functions allowed.
15) Allow preset templates for parent-child scenario, fleet owner scenario that automatically adds the dummy device and sets up the entire system. Then the user can add his own users to the scenario. But using this approach user would not know what are the default settings used which may have security risk. Instead give a demo and ask user to click buttons to setup the scenario explaining the function of each button.
16) There should be a feature to retrieve the location of a person using SMS in case the data is not working.
17) The device should be able to act as a chain hanging for a school bag, purse etc. It should have a small battery for small size and should come with changing covers to suit the audience. Ease of accessibility promotes adoption. The firmware on the device should be able to upgrade which means the entire code can be updated on the device.
18) If we can integrate the device with Google home or amazon echo, then the notifications regarding a person leaving a location and reaching a location can be told on the device. This will help mothers waiting for kids at home to hear this info without checking into the app.
19) Big fleet operators would be interested in telemetry data from vehicles in addition to the GPS data. So, GPS tracking would be useful for small scale fleet operators. And to attract them the devices should be available in a easy to plug/place model. The fleet would be interested in the time since which a person has been standing at a particular location. So, when a person's history is shown we can show the period from say 8am-10am as a single location and then the next position in increments of one hour. When the GPS does not change in a period of 10 minutes we show it as a period instead of a time snapshot. So, if a person has been standing at one location (within 50 metres) for a period more than 10 minutes it should be shown as a period and if the person is moving we show the time on map at an interval of 1 hour. Most importantly the fleet owner needs to know when a driver is going to be free. This can be determined if the driver enters the target location on the app and follows the route. For this even the in-car device needs to have a way of knowing the destination. Otherwise we can only tell if the driver is free by seeing if he has been idle for more than 10 minutes. Based on this the fleet controller can assign a vehicle to a new assignment based on availability in the region.
20) The device should have two buttons on it and should send panic information on different combinations of pressing the button. Like button 1 two times indicates feeling insecure, button 2 two times means help, button1 two times and then button 2 indicates call the gaurdian.
21) Each device data should be encrypted using it's own encryption key. Also data should be signed while transmitting.
22) On the device there should be a queue for incoming messages(of type firmware upgrade or command(to get logs of the device, or to change the functions of the buttons, or to set the functional parameters)) and outgoing messages(of type GPS data or request device reset that may trigger firmware upgrade command).
23) Devices like heart beat rate measurement should be able to relay the data to the central app that can display the heart rate of the person. Emergency scenario can be identified based on the heart beat rate.
24) Expose public API's that can be used by device developers to post their data to the app to display information.
25) There should be API's to consume the data, so that any company can make use of the data emitted by the user's usage into their systems/dashboards. Like a company can provide night drop-offs to the employees and the employees can use the fingerprint sensor tools to indicate that they have reached destination safely. Once they indicate that they have reached the destination, the data would be saved in the system. Now this data can be accessed either using mobile app or a company can write API to access this information. Every caller of API should have a header(caller id and auth token or device identity token) to pass the check. Any rogue user can be rejected by determining it's caller id.
26) Any consumer of the API's should use the security token specific to the caller company that changes on daily basis. The consumer should call the service to get the latest token to be used.
27) When kids go on a field trip, the teacher can create a group for the list of students going on the trip and set the alert for all the kids to be in a radius of x kms of the teacher. This way any student that goes out of the perimeter, the teacher would be able to identify the kid. Even when parents or friends go together in a fair or market, they can locate each other using the app.
28) The app should have a feature of telling the direction (N, E,NE etc) towards a member in a place where the route is not available. Suppose people are lost in woods or in mumbai ghetto or during chasing someone in a ghetto.
29) Periodic auditing of all the groups (more than 100 members) should be done to ensure that it is not being used for illegal purpose. Suppose it being used to track the beggars(by people forcing them), or by flesh traders (to track the girls). Every entity registering more than 5 members should be registered under premium account and needs to fill in the details on the type of business conducted and owner and company name. The audits should ensure that business activity looks as has been stated. The audits should be automated.
30) If any tracking is going on in the device, then a notification should be displayed and icon should be highlighted indicating that tracking is in progress. As there may be scenarios goes when a person gets access to somebody's phone for a day or so and sets this up.
31) Any way to prevent the bad guys placing the device in someone's pocket or purse to track that person. Either for kidnapping, rape etc. On-call support should be available to see if any person is being tracked by checking the location the person has been to and the time interval with the GPS data in system. There should be indexes on time as well to search GPS data.
32) The device can be used to alert the user whenever it goes out of the perimeter. Such device can be placed in the car and can be used to alert the owner whenever any theft happens. Also, the safety can be turned on at night manually or using a schedule.
33) The device can be placed on the pets to monitor their location. Jiobit (https://www.jiobit.com) is a device that implements many things that we plan to do. The problem is that shipping is available only in USA and the device is expensive (~$99 per year subscription, cancel any time). It is available only as a hanging device and is not hidden. Supports geofencing. Has data security (encrypted data). It is good for haging in belt, hoops etc. It has a good interface that is kid friendly. Why is it not used by all- high cost, only available in USA, integration with other systems is not present. People would not want to pay every month a hefty pay of $10. Instead they would want to buy a device one time with Sim inside it and only pay for the renewal of the sim. They should be free to choose the internet plan they want as per market. 
34) There can be a feature to track a person from location A to B if the time to destination changes by more than 10 minutes (based on the route the person is taking) then an alert can be sent to the owners of the group. The tracking should be selected manually once a person leaves the location as this would be a time intensive operation.
35) The data plans used by consumer should be such that its validity is near to 6 months or a year as people with low income would utilize it efficiently to make economical use of the device. The house owners can give the device to maids to help the maid track their kids and the maid can pay the data plan fee alone.
36) Devices like watch would be needed having GPS in it as in school the kids won't be allowed the GPS hanging and even if allowed other kids would tamper it.
37) Even when the GPS app is freely available on iPhone, people are not using it. One of the reasons could be that it only shows the location of friends and has geo-fencing. It does not show the steps to find friends in an intuitive/visual manner. It does not have any history of location, so less support. It is needed to show the sequence of steps in visual manner for people to easily understand and the sequence of steps for each scenario should be provided. You need to provide a cookbook for each scenario like vegrecipesofindia. The video of people in villages should be provided to indicate how easy it is to use and affordable as well, but for this support for Hindi and other local languages is required. The device should serve all cadres of society (Indian languages and english support). If you provide support for all indian languages the images should be such that they do not contain any text as then different images would be needed for each tutorial for all languages. So, instead of video for maids or labors in cities can be displayed that helps people in tracking their day to day activities. Like a shop keeper has access to GPS data of the vehicle carrying milk. The shop-keepers can determine the time of arrival of the vehicle, but for this the vehicle provider should agree to placing the device on the vehicle. Additionally, the vehicle carrying milk may change so cannot be determined which vehicle is being tracked. The bus provider can publish a tracking id to all the passengers on their mobiles and the passengers can track the bus on their mobiles. The tracking id should be a public way of sharing the GPS data that does not require any group creation. Even school buses can use it. Whenever school bus leaves for a place, the message can be published to all the members in the group regarding the tracking id of the vehicle. In a group there should be device for route A device that should be displayed to all members and that should be able to trigger it's location on pressing the button on the device (A green indicator would indicate that device is emitting location and red light would indicate that currently no data is being emmited). Once the driver starts the bus he should press the button. In this case the device should be tagged with the route number so that the user accidently does not use the device for another route which will lead to confusion among all. All such groups should be created as listeners to a single device. The publisher can be either the device or the driver's mobile where the driver can select the group(route number) and publish that he is starting. On mobile where the driver is emmiting data, the group should be accessible on the first page of the app. On such groups the other members of the group should only be the listeners. These scenarios should be clearly stated in the website. A bus operator can send a bulk request using online tool to all the passengers (taken as a list of csv or input mobile numbers) and message(with certain editable fields like expiry time of group, group name). The users would receive the request and if they accept they would be added to a new group created for the specific purpose. Such groups would be short lived groups and would die out after their expiry date.
38) The service can be free to all users less than 100 capacity, but ads can be there with location highlighting the area of interest by specific business. Location specific advertisements would highlight the area of interest one at a time. Any offers by outlets can be displayed as a bubble at the specific location. User can close the bubble. Also, the bubble should not interfere with seeing the members on the map. Check if google maps support adding and removing bubble at random. The sim cost can be covered for user if we promote the sim provider on users mobile regarding their outlets/general ad. If maps does not support custom bubble an ad can be shown on bottom of the screen. The ad on botton of screen can be removed by clicking on it which brings a full screen ad and a close button. The better option is to keep a screen for credits for the user. If the user wants credits on his sim that is fitted in the device, the user can click on the credit screen and watch video ads to get credits. Once the credits reach a specific value, the user will get free recharge on the sim. User can get specific threshold number of credits in a month.
39) The devices can be free if they have the promoters logo on it highlighting their brand. The promoters should sponsor the device. Using one mobile number only one free device can be provided to ensure that the devices are equally distributed for widespread reach.
40) There should be a feature of identifying all the devices active at any location and disabling the device so that it cannot be used for compromising security.
41) On the mobile app, the log file should be generated for every month. The name of the file should be based on month and year. Whenever a new file is created, the older files should be deleted from the system. Only N-1 version log files should be maintained. There should be a feature in app settings to send over the log files to support team. At the installation of the app the message should be shown to user to send usage data to server. Only if the user selects that option, the log files should be periodically sent to the server.
42) The workflow initiated in the system should have a corresponding workflow id and if that workflow requires REST call, the workflow id should be appended in the header of the request.
43) Every time we fetch a location and the user has enabled geofencing, we need to check if the location is within x metres (x is geofencing radius) of the epicenter, If yes, then we need to check whether the device has been in that state (so no notification required). If not then a notification needs to be sent. This calculation is happening on the mobile device. Additionally for any geofence, the user can specify the time during the day when it needs to be monitored. For any geofence, we need to calculate the distance between the current location and geofence (epicenter - raduis). The geofence calculation should be stopped for a period where the device cannot reach the boundary of the geofence at the speed of 200 km/h for road(configurable setting that can be pushed to mobile app and is refreshed everyday. User should be provide information regarding whether the user commutes using road or air for entering and going out of the geofence. This setting can be provided in advanced section. By default user's commute should be by road. The configurable value of speed should be based on the region). The table should maintain the nextboundarytouchevaluationtime in ticks. If the current time in ticks is greater than or equal to this db value only then the evaluation would be performed. There should be a battery optimizer section in the app that tells the ways in which the battery utilization can be optimized. Any overlapping geofence should be shown as a warning sign (1) Avoid overlapping geofences 2) The number of geofences should be less than five 3) You have not travelled to some geofence in more than a week. Consider removing it.). Any gefence that has not been accessed for more than a month should be deleted post notification to the user. User needs to take action post which the geofence table will be updated to clear the remove flag and the evaluation for removal should happen from the day the clear flag was removed. For the stationary location scenario, the app should store the last location that was processed for geofencing successfully. If the location has not changed (or has changed less than 50 metres (configurable). The least geofence radius that can be set should be 100 metres(configurable)), then the geofence evaluation should not be done.
44) As people with low income cannot afford proper treatment from police, they can for groups such that every family has a group where all members are part of the group. And they select a group that is responsible for securing their family. They can then transfer the session data that group, so that the security group can view in real-time the data associated with the family issue.
45) In the application, there should be a feature to provide the list of devices that are in close proximity to you. The list of devices would be shown on the map, however, you cannot track those devices for security reasons. Additionally, we would not disclose the type of device that is present around you. This is to ensure that the person who bought the device can use the hidden device. Only if the security authorities come into picture this data would be disclosed. As the device can be used by a person who is trying to follow bad guys and is caught. If however, some person who feels he is being tracked complains to the police and police asks the company to disclose the information, this information can be provided.
46) Users should be clearly shown the data that is stored on the site and user should be able to control which data they want to share and for how long. If they disable some data sharing, some features may not work, this needs to be highlighted to the user.
47) Geofencing should be enabled/disabled during specific times based on the user schedule. Alternatively the user can manually enable/disable the geofence (say before sleeping at home or at office after reaching the office). If the vehicle goes out of that geofence, a notification shoud be trigerred and automatic tracking should be enabled. Person should be able to enable/disable geofencing for multiple devices in a single click after initial setup.
48) There should be a feature of clubbing two devices (say user's phone and GPS device fit in the car) and define a geofence of those two devices. If the distance between the devices exceeds the geofence diameter, automatic tracking should start. This will help the user to configure safety without explicitly setting the schedule or manual trigger. The user can even place two devices (one in the car and one in the key fob). Whenever the car moves away from the key fob greater than the geofence (in case the vehicle theft occurs), then automatic tracking on the device should be performed.
49) Whenever, a person crosses a geofence, only a notification should be sent to the server instead of starting a mapping session. The location data from all the devices available should be sent every 10 minutes (the person can configure the device not to send information at specific times within the day (say from 9pm to 7am) as the device would stay at home. It would preserve battery and data. Once the time has been set, the next time of being offline would be set, only once the device is synched). As a response to this data, a list of features to be updated (new geofence, emergency session start etc.) should be sent back. And any requester should be displayed the current status of the request (Waiting for confirmation from device. Expected sync within 10 minutes).
50) There should be an organized feedback and improvement tracker. All improvements should be grouped under top level improvement features, so that the number of requests of a feature can be known and the feature with highest number of requests can be respected. The improvement list should be publicly visible to all. The feedback can be provided at app level, employee interaction experience level or company policy level.
51) As the data would be huge, the archival of data should be performed every month to a backend store (table storage) and purging from backend store should be performed on yearly basis.
52) If a person owns a mobile and the mobile is stolen, there should be an option to silently(without notification) enable fast tracking on the device provided the person owns the mobile in his/her account.
53) Different NGO's can participate can form public groups (and cater to specific locations). Based on the locations to which the NGO's cater (either locality level, or State level, or national level or combination of these), the users can be displayed the list of public group that users can add to their group. Using this the user can notify the public group as well in case of an emergency. All the public groups are by default administrators as they have priviledge of only viewing the distress scenarios and possibly acting on them (extension/trigger) and not to report an emergency scenario themselves. So, a public group needs a classification like GroupType(NGO, Police etc). Also, there should be a verified name for the group like "Nari suraksha dal", "Corruption ban group" etc. Any person can post a video/audio on the group that would be visible by all members of the group. The audio/video can be fetched only based on request in which case, the content would be verified by the third party and be dispatched to the requestor. In addition to creating an emergency session, people should be able to report the common issues like corruption, public area maintainance, security issues etc. on the group. They can be tagged as a issue and should be visible to all members of the group. All the issues and emergency situations should be visible at a higher level who has authority over it (like report available for the chief minister for the list of issues and their category (Corruption, Road maintenance, Public Safety, women security, Others (Others need to be explicitly classified based on the inputs from users). The list of people who have been presented with the consolidated and detailed report should be tracked in case they have intervened in a situation and taken advantage of the report to trouble the victim. A person can raise different types of issues and every issue may have a different group that can be targeted. So, which creating an issue there should be an option to target specific public groups or notifying a group of which the user is a part. (Notification should be displayed to the user if there is no other admin in the group created by user to indicate that no other party is responsible to view the issue, even though user would be allowed to create the issue as the administrators that are added later to the group can view the issues reported to the group. This should be allowed as after an emergency/issue reporting, the user may go and add additional public groups to the issue/emergency report. So, every issue and emergency report should have a separate association with groups. Additionally, the emergency report can be viewed by all the groups of which the user is a part as time of selection may not be there.
54) Facility should be there for the devices to immidiately respond to a request from the server. If a SIM is available to all devices including mobiles, then instead of connecting to the server every 5 minutes, the devices should be in a reactive mode where an SMS/notification should trigger some action and the device should start transmitting the data.
55) Whenever anyone is in trouble, they can raise an emergency then user can select to notify the buddy(members in the group of which the user is a part) and all the group members of which the buddies are a part. This can help increase the reach whenever any help is needed (say by someone in a dark lane when someone is following you). While sending notification to friend's friend, the last known location of the indirect contact should be used to determine whether that person should be notified.
56) The emergency button can be customized for repetitive emergencies faced by an individual to either send harassment notification to the group. Also, the group to be notified (primary group) can be customized for that specific emergency.