1) Create a community for divisions within a city that can act as an emergency response system. The participants should sign the acceptance that in case of life threatning situations they should take police help and in case they get involved in a accident during the rescue operation the company would not be responsible.
2) People can register in the community and get entry after a validity check(No police record, address verification, proper reason to join, how they can help during emergency). Caveat: Police may oppose saying their job is being done by the people and there may be life risk involved for members. In this scenario, a lawyer needs to be in place from the start of the program.
3) Whenever there is an emergency, the vicitim can trigger the panic button that sends alerts to all volunteers in the vicinity based on the lcoation of the victim. During panic situation, the location of the vicitm is sent (and optionally a audio and video sample is taken and sent to the control room). After analysing the content in real time in the control room the location and problem faced can be sent to all the voluteers.
4) Each volunteer gets points based on the response from the victim on the app. The identity of the volunteer is not disclosed in the app. The response rating and criticality of the situation (determined by the control room) provides points to the volunteers on the support provided.
5) The savious should be rewarded in monetary form.
6) Each area should have a maximum participant limit based on the area covered. The volunteers should get a feeling of responsibility and belongingness towards the community in order to make the concept workable. For this the control should lie in the hands of the volunteers.
7) There should be online portal where people can post the video/photo of any problems being faced by people along with the location asking for help. Other members can assist and report the situation handled. All members who help would be awarded on the portal and monthly stars would be showcased. There is one caveat that posting the victims location may pose threat to the victim in case someone is tracking the updates with bad intention. Thiefs may consider it an opportunity to loot.
8) The security service initially can be provided as a paid service to specific setups which would be tagged as "<Company> secured facility". As part of this service, the facility would be provided with a specific number of guards with specialized trainings (based on the level of security subscribed). The cost of security would depend on the facility size (the number of guards would depend on the facility size.), any extra guards if requested and the level of expertize of the guards.