Pros

Cons
1) Every person having this device may generate an environment of distrust among people. - The advantages of using the technology exceeds to disadvantages of using it. It should be promoted to be used only in the scenarios where distrust can be there like 
	a) When a girl goes out on date so feeling of insecurity because of the guy or insecurity becuase of the secluded place they go to. (need video or pictures and audio)
	b) When a guy goes out with a girl and there is a doubt that the girl may blackmail the guy for sth he has not done. (Need video and audio)
	c) When a girl goes out and she had to face periodic harrasment at particular place because of some trouble-makers. This would help provide proof against such people (There should be video and audio footage for such place).
	d) While driving if a person detects that there is some activity going on outside (like someone being beaten or some girl being harrased or someone driving extremely rash), then the person can turn on the cameras using a switch that tells the camera when to start and stop and also tells the camera which direction to point to (a joystick kind of interface can be provided).
	e) When people see others taking bribe, they can shoot the video and audio.

Also, people should be discouraged to use this in below scenarios:
	a) When minor offenses like slight speeding, stopping vehicle on road etc. are observed as the person taking the video has a risk of getting into an accident. The video camera should be flexible enough to capture the videos on all sides (esp. front and two sides) so that once capture mode starts (using a button that enables to select a camera or all cameras), the person should have flexibility to indicate which camera should be used to capture. If person needs to adjust the camera, then chances of accidents are there. For minor offenses the video footage from public should not be entertained as moral policing is the job of police authorities and not to be taken up by public. Company should not provide videos that appear to be an example of moral policing to the requestor.

2) As everyone may know about the devices and the articles they can be embedded in, the assailant (boyfriend, girlfriend, goons) may remove the article from the person or emotionally blackmail the person to get rid of it. - The device should be able to fit in objects that are hard to catch like spects, in-vehicle. At first it should be shipped in articles that are easy to carry like purse, bag, clothing, necklace. But the production of these articles should not be in large scale as the articles may become void once people start recognizing the articles. One option is to have the detachable device but once the device is detached the look and feel or the article should not be spoiled. There should be a placeholder cover so the article looks as good as with device post device removal.

3) Miscreants may use the device to take objectionable videos (for blackmail or fun). - The video should remain in an encrypted form on the SD card. It should be decryptable only on the server. Once the customer support verifies the video content (as not objectionable including obscene videos. There should be proper analysis of the type of videos that can be uploaded), then the content can be delivered to the customer.

4) Miscreants may combine parts of videos to form a fabricated video. - Every video delivered to the customer should have a hash delivered along with the video. If the video's hash does not match the hash embedded, the video should not be considered as a proof.

5) People can start a parallel industry using the articles (purse, wallet, car holders etc) by placing their own device in it. The device may be displaying videos directly to the consumer losing the sole purpose of maintaining privacy. - This needs to be tackled using below methods:
	a) As people can save the unencrypted content directly on the SD card, and they can use it to capture illegal content and the victim can file a case against the company regarding the illegal usage of their video/photo. The hash of every arduino code should be stored in our database and should be mapped to the device id. If the code on the device does not match the hash, there is a tampering of the code. Also, the code version stored on device should be mapped to the device in the database.
	b) The combination of devices (camera, microphone) can work with any code base. Anyone can tamper the code base and have their own version of the code that may send unencrypted videos directly to the mobile. If some miscreant does it for himself it can be a one-off case and this kind of activity can be done by any person aware of technology in use. For this, even the mobile app should be created such that the video/photo content coming from the device should always be shown as encrypted and there should be separate section to view the unencrypted content and that should be downloaded from server and stored on local. The server should check if any content being uploaded by the mobile app is not encrypted a red flag should be raised and the device id should be barred from usage sending a notification to the consumer regarding the same. 
	c) If someone starts selling the tool to upload content on the devices that allows the user to directly send the video to the list of unencrypted content of the app, then that requires the new app to be created. So, this would mean new arduino code and new mobile app is created and only the existing device hardware is being used. This would be difficult for the consumer as it requires taking out the device and attaching the arduino to the tool to upload content and installing another app. So, it should be made difficult to unassemble the device for the content to be uploaded.
	d) Anyone can start to sell the device and app online that can fit into the existing products. The products however, have to be designed so that the device is easily replaceable as we also need to repair the device or provide replacements. In order for others to tap into the market we can ask partners to develop devices that can provide richer capabilities so that others can also profit from the sale of the devices. We would only act as a source for managing the content and app. If we allow partners to create devices, we need to expose the encryption mechanism with them and an encryption key along with it. But that should not be a problem as the decryption key would still lie with us. This strategy would help build the network and would give better range of options to customers in terms of price, quality, experience, articles etc.

5) The security platform if it falls prey to the political influence, then we may not provide the exact video footage to the consumer as we may say that the video is not present or is garbled. For any video footage, we should at least provide the audio associated with it, so that the consumer knows that recording has been done. For the video, we may take out data from clips, so that it is visible in garbled format. This way at least the company cannot deny the presence of the content. Also, put a clause in legal document that the company is not responsible for loss of any content that may happen due to any accident. Also, put a clause that the company is not responsible for the quality of the video/audio as the quality depends on the environment available while recording the content.